 Building a class-based verb Iexicon using TAGs  Department of Computer and Information Sciences  University of Pennsy!vania  200 South 33rd Street  {ki pper,htd,schuler,mpalmer}@linc.cis.upenn.edu  We present a class-based approach to building a verb lexicon that makes explicit the close relation between syntax and semanrics for Levin classes. We have used a Lexicalized Tree Adjoining Grammar to capture the syntax associated witfi P.ach verb class and have added semantic predicates to each tree, which allow for a compositional inte1pre1u::.::::.  1. Introduction  We describe a computational verb lexicon called VerbNet which utilizes Levin verb classes (Levin, 1993) to systematically construct lexical entlies. We have used Lexicalized Tree Ad joining Grammar (LTAG) (Joshi, 1985; Schabes, 1990) to capture the svntax associated with each verb class, and have added semantic pred1cates. We also show how regular extensions of verb meaning can be achieved through the adjunction of particular syntactic phrases. We base these regular extensions on intersective Levin classes, a fine-grained variation on Levin classes, as a source of semantic components associated with specific adjuncts (Dang et al 1998). Whereas previous research on tying semantics to Levin classes (Dorr, 1997) has not explicitly implemented the close relation between syntax and semantics hypothesized by Levin, our lexical resource combines traditional lexical semantic inforrnation, such as thematic roles and semantic predicates, with syntactic frames and selectional restrictions. In order to increase the utility of VerbNet, we also include links to entries in WordNet, which is one of the most widely used online Jexical databases in Natural Language Processing applications.  2. Levin Classes and WordNet  Two current approaches to English verb classifications are Word_Net and Levin classes. Word Net is an on-line lexical database ofEnglish that currently contains approximately 120,000 sets of noun, verb, adjective, and adverb synonyms, each representing a lexicalized concept. A synset (synonym set) contains, besides all the word forms that can refer to a given concept, a definitional gloss and-in most cases -an example sentence. Words and synsets are interrelated by means of lex.ical and semantic-conceptual links, respectively. Antonymy or semantic opposi tion links individual words, while the super-/subordinate relation links entire synsets. WordNet was designed principally as a semantic network, and contains little syntactic inforrnation. Even as a semantic resource, however, it is missing some of the information that has traditionally been required by NLP applications, including ex.plicit predicate-argument structures. WordNet senses are often too fine-grained as well, lacking an underlying notion of semantic components and a systematic extension of basic senses to produce these fine-grained senses.  The Levin verb classification, on the other hand, does explicitly state the syntax for each class, but still falls short ofassigning semantic components to each class. The classes are based on the ability or inability of a verb to occur in pairs of syntactic frames that are in some sense meaning preserving (diathesis alternations) (Levin, 1993). The sets of syntactic frames associated with a particular Levin class are supposed to reftect underlying semantic components that constrain allowable arguments and adjuncts. For example, break verbs and cut verbs are similar in that they can all participate in the transitive and middle constructions. However, only break verbs can also occur in the simple intransitive, and cut verbs can occur in the conative, where break verbs cannot. The explanation given is that cut describes a series ofactions directed at achieving the goal of separating some object into pieces. lt is possible for these actions to be performed without the end result being achieved, but where the cutting manner can still be recognized (i.e., "John cut at the loaf'). For break, the only thing specified is the resulting change ofstate where the object becomes separated into pieces. Ifthe result is not achieved, no attempted breaking action can be recognized.  John broke the window.  John cut the bread.  2. Middle construction  This loafcuts easily.  The window broke.  *The bread cut.  4. Conative construction  *John broke at the window.  John valiantly cut/hacked at the frozen loaf, but his knife was too dull to make a dent in it.  The fundamental assumption is that the syntactic frames are a direct reftection ofthe underlying semantics. However, Levin classes exhibit inconsistencies that have hampered rese~chers' ability to reference them directly in applications. Many verbs are Iisted in multiple classes, some of which have confticting sets of syntactic frames. For instance, carry verbs are described as not taking the conative (*"The mother carried at the baby"), and yet many of the verbs in the carry class (push, pull, tug, shove, kick) are also listed in the push/pullclass, which does takethe conative. Dang et al. (1998) showed that multiple listings could in some cases be interpreted as regular sense extensions, and defined intersective Levin classes, which are a more syntactically and semantically coherent refinement of basic Levin classes. We implement these verb classes and their regular sense extensions in the Lexicalized Tree Adjoining Grammar formalism.  VerbNet can be viewed in both a static and a dynamic way. The static aspect  entries and how they are organized, providing the characteristic descriptions of averb r.  a verb class. The dynamic aspect of the lexicon constrains the entries to allow a composid il~  interpretation in LTAG derivation trees, capturing extended verb meanings by incorporating  Bach verb entry refers to a set of classes, corresponding to the different senses of the verb. For  example, the manner of motion sense of "nin" is a member of the Manner of Motion class, whereas "run" as in "the street runs through the district" is a member of the Meallder class. For each verb sense there is a verb dass as weil as specific selectional restrictions (e.g., an in strument of "kick" must be of type f oot) and semantic characteristics (e.g a particular manner of directed motion) that may not be captured by the class membership. In order to provide a mapping to other dictionaries, we also include links to WordNet synsets. Because WordNet has more fine-grained sense distinctions than Levin, each verb sense in VerbNet references the set of WordNet synsets (if any) that captures the meaning appropriate to the class. Verb classes allow us to capture genera!izations about verb behavior. This reduces not only the effo1t needed to construct the lexicon, but also the likelihood that errors are introduced when adding a new verb entry. E;;ch ., ,l; dass ast:. u1e themat1c roJes that the predicate-argument structure of its members allows, and provides descriptions of the syntactic frames corresponding to licensed constructions, with selectional restrictions defined for each argument in each frame. Each frame also indudes semantic predicates describing the participants at various stages of the event described by the frame.  Figure l: Moens and Steedman 's tripartite structure of events  We decompose each event E into a tripartite structure in a manner similar to Moens and Steed man (1988), introducing a time function for each predicate to specify whether the predicate is true in the preparatory (during(E)), culmination (end(E)), or consequent (result(E)) stage of  an event. The tripartite event structure (Figure 1) allows us to express the semantics of classes of verbs like change of state verbs whose adequate description requires reference to a complex event structure. In the case of a verb such as "break", it is important to make a distinction be tween the state of the object before the end of the action (during(E)), and the new state that results afterwards (result(E)).  Verb classes are hierarchically organized, ensuring that each dass is coherent -that is, all its  members have common semantic elements and share a common set ofthematic roles arid basic syntactic frames. This requires some manual restructuring of the original Levin classes, which is facilitated by using intersective Levin classes. In addition, a particular verb may add more semantic information to the basic semantics ofits class. Figure 2 shows a partial entry for the Hit class. This class allows for three thematic roles: Agent, Patient and Instrument, with constraints that the Agent is generally animate; the Patient concrete; and the Instrument concrete and inanimate.1 These selectional restrictions refer to  1These constraints are more like preferences that generate a preferred reading of a sentence. They may be  a feature hierarchy where animate subsumes animal and human, concrete subsumes both an imate and inanimat~. ::!!'!~ " " forth. This representation does not suffer from some drawbacks of theta role analysis because our roles are not global primitives, but are only used to describe relationships within a class. The strength of our representation comes from the explicit relationship between syntax and semantics captured in each entry. Figure 2 shows some of the syntactic frames allowed for the Hit class and the semantic predicates for each frame. Thematic roles are used as descriptors which are mapped into arguments ofsemantic predicates as weil as the argument positions in a TAG elementary tree. The tripartite event structure also handles the conative construction, in which there is an inten tion of a goal during the event which is not achieved at the end of the event. The example shown in Figure 2 for the conative construction has the predicate  mamter(during( E ), directedmotion,A) but because the intended contact by sudden impact is not satisfied, the semantics does not in clude the predicates  mmmer(end(E),forceful,A) /\ contact( end( E),A,P).  3.2. Compositional Semantics  We use TAG elementary trees to describe syntactic frames and associate semantic predicates and selectional restrictions with each tree. Elementary trees capture the basic semantics of the verbs in each class. Each frame in the static aspect of the Jexicon maps onto a TAG elemen tary tree, in which the thematic roles correspond to substitution sites. Some auxiliary trees are class-based because they interact with the verbs in the class in peculiar ways and add seman  relaxed depending on the domain ofa particular application.  HITclass  ( (THEMATIC ROLES ) )  ( (FRAMES and PREDICATES ) ) Basic Transitive AVP  Transitive with Instrument  Conative With/against altemation  Transitive  A VPwithI A VatP  A V I against/on P IVP  manner( during(E),directedmotion,A) /\  contact( end(E) ,A,P)  manner(du1ing(E),directedmotion,I) /\  contact( end(E),I,P)  manner(during(E),directedmotion,A)  manner(during(E),directedmotion,I) /\  contact(end(E),I,P)  manner(during(E),directedmotion,I) /\  . . . UT"'\ ~. ; --f 1 T)  Figure 2: Partial entry for the Hit class  s  across  meets(EargOo E) /\ motion(during(E), XargO.ar91)/\ via(during(E), Xa~gO.ar91, Xarg1)  Figure 3: Initial transitive tree for "hit" and auxiliary tree for "across"  tic content specific to the class. Others, such as temporal adjuncts, bring the same semantic predicate independent of the verb. We use a flat semantic representation Jike that of Joshi and Vijay-Shanker (1999) in which the semantics of a sentence is the conjunction of the semantic predicates of the trees used to derive the sentence. We ensure that all the semantic arguments of basic predicates are local to the syntactic initial tree. For example, the basic transitivP. frame in Figure 2 shows that the Agent is in direct motion and contacts the Patient in a forceful manner. If an instrument is spec1iied, 11 rt.:. ia---.:.:. the Agent in these predicates. Since the instrument can be an argument in the basic predicates of the Hit class, it must appear in the elementary trees whenever it is specified, even if it is in a prepositional phrase. The ability of certain verbs to take on extended senses based on their adjuncts is captured in a natural way by the TAG operation of adjunction and our conjunction of semantic predicates. Figure 3 shows an initial transitive tree anchored by "hit" and the semantic predicate~ associated with this syntactic frame. The original Hit verb class does not include movement of the direct object as part ofthe meaning of"hit" -only one event ofcontact by sudden impact is described. This event is subdivided into three predicates: the first,  manner(during( E ),directedmotion,XargO) specifies that during the event E, Xar9ois iri directed motion; the second, mariner(end(E)Jorceful.Xargo) refers to the forceful contact of Xargo at the end ofE; and the third,  con tact( end( E ).Xargo.Xarg1) establishes that at the end ofevent E, contact between Xargo and Xa 91 has been achieved. By adjoining a path PP such as "across NP", we getan extended meaning, and a change in Levin class membership to the Throw class. Figure 3 shows the auxiliary tree anchoreq by the preposition "across" together with its semantic predicates. The class-specific path PP adds the predicates  meets(Earg0,E) /\ motion(during(E),XargO.ary1) /\ via(during(E),XargO.arg1,Xary1), introducing a motion event that immediately follows (meets) the contact event, which is the basic sense of the Hit class. InFigure 4, we show the derived tree for the sentence "John hit the apple across the room" with all the predicates instantiated. The arguments are recovered from the derivation tree, following Candito and Kahane (1998). When an initial tree, such as O:John, is substituted into another  s  across the room  hit the apple  Figure 4: Sense extension of "hit" through adjunction of a path PP  tree a:1iit the dependency mirrors the derivation structure, so the variables associated with the substituting tree can be referenced as arguments in the host tree's predicates (see Figure 5). When an auxiliary tree across is adjoined, the dependency for tn~ ;nn is reversed. so that variables associated with the host tree can be referenced as arguments in the adjoining tree's predicates. With this dependency from across to ahit (labeled argO), it is now possible for the semantic predicates associated with across to predicate over variables in the dependent tree a1i;t. including the variable XargO.argl instantiated as apple, resulting in the predicates  a:hit a:hit  a:John a:apple :across a:John a:apple :across  Derivation structure Dependency structure  Verbs in the intersective class formed by the Push/Pull verbs and the Carry verbs behave in a similar manner. The core meaning of this verb class is exertion of force. Adjunction of a path PP implying motion modifies membership of these verbs to the Carry class. Push/Pull verbs can appear in the conative construction, which emphasizes their forceful semantic component and ability to express an attempted action where any result that might be associated with the verb is not necessarily achieved; Carry verbs (used with a goal or directional phrase) cannot take the conative alternation because this would conflict with the causation of motion which is the intrinsic meaning of the class (Dang et al 1998).  in motion.  4. Conclusion  We have presented a class-based approach to building a verb lexicon that makes explicit the close association between syntax and semantics, as postulated by Levin. By using verb classes we capture generalizations about verb behavior and reduce not only the effort needed to con struct the lexicon, but also the like!ihood that errors are introduced when adding new verbs. Another important contribution ofthis work is that by dividing each event into a tripartite struc ture, we pennit a more precise definition of the associated semantics, which is necessary for applications such as animation of natural language instructions (Bindiganavale et al 2000). The power of the lexicon comes from its dynamic aspect which is based on the LTAG fonnal ism. The Operation of adjunction in TAGs provides a principled approach to representing the type of regular polysemy that has been a major obstacle in building verb lex.icons.  Acknowledgments  The authors would Iike to thank the anonymous reviewers for their va!uable comments. This research was partially supported by ~~Sr g;.alili> :::rs oQnn..;'iR ::ind IIS-9900297, Office of Naval Research AASERTs N00014-97-l-0603, and CAPES grant 0914-95.  B!NDIGANAVALE R SCHULER W ALLBECK J. M BADLER N. I., JOSHI A. K. & PALMER M. (2000). Dynamically Altering Agent Behaviors Using Natural Language Instructions. Fourth Interna tional Conference 011 Auto11omous Agents.  BLEAM T PALMER M. & VIJAY-SHANKER K. (1998). Motion Verbsand Semantic Features in TAG. In Proceedings ofthe Fourth TAG+ Workshop, Philadelphia, PA.  CANDITO M.-H. & KAHANE S. (1998). Can the TAG Derivation Tree Represent a Semantic Graph? An Answer in the Light of Meaning-Text Theory. In Proceedi11gs of the Fourth TAG+ Workshop, p. 21-24, Philadelphia, PA.  DANG H. T KIPPER K PALMER M. & ROSENZWEIG J. (1998). Investigating Regular Sense Exten sions Based on Intersective Levin classes. In Proceedings ofCOL!NG-ACL98, Montreal, CA.  DORR B. J. (1997). Large-Scale Dictionary Construction for Foreign Language Tutoring and Interlin gual Machine Translation. Machine Translation, 12, 1-55.  JOSHI A. K. (1985). How Much Context Sensitivity Is Necessary for Characterizing Structural Descrip tions: Tree Adjoining Grammars. In L. K. D. DOWTY & A. ZWICKY, Eds Natural language parsing: Psychological, computational and theoretical perspectives, p. 206-250. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press.  JOSHJ A. K. & VIJAY-SHANKER K. (1999). Compositional Semantics with Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar: How Much Under-Specification Is Necessary? In Proceedings of the Third International Workshop on Computational Semantics (lWCS-3), p. 131-145, Tilburg, The Netherlands.  LEVIN B. (1993). English Verb Classes and Alternation: A Preliminary lnvestigation. The University ofChicago Press.  MOENS M. & STEEDMAN M. (1988). Tempora! Ontology and Temporal Reference. Computation"af  Linguistics, 14, 15-38.  PALMER M., ROSENZWEIG J. & SCHULER W. (1999). Capturing Motion Verb Generalizations in Sy~ chronous Tree-Adjoining Grammar. In P. SAINT-DIZIER, Ed., Predicative Fonns in Natural Languagti a11d in Lexical Knowledge Bases. Kluwer Press.  SCHABES Y. (1990). Mathematical and Computational Aspects ofLexicalized Grammars. PhD thesi~ Computer Science Department, University of Pennsylvania. 