 ﻿Predicting the Semantic Orientation of Adjectives  Department of Computer Science  450 Computer Science Building  Columbia University  New York, N.Y. 10027, USA  {vh, kathy) cs, columbia, edu  We identify and validate from a large pus constraints from conjunctions on the positive or negative semantic orientation of the conjoined adjectives. A log-linear regression model uses these constraints to predict whether conjoined adjectives are of same or different orientations, achiev-ing 82% accuracy in this task when each conjunction is considered independently. Combining the constraints across many jectives, a clustering algorithm separates the adjectives into groups of different tations, and finally, adjectives are labeled positive or negative. Evaluations on real data and simulation experiments indicate high levels of performance: classification precision is more than 90% for adjectives that occur in a modest number of tions in the corpus.  Introduction  The semantic orientation or polarity of a word cates the direction the word deviates from the norm for its semantic group or lezical field (Lehrer, 1974). It also constrains the word's usage in the language (Lyons, 1977), due to its evaluative characteristics (Battistella, 1990). For example, some nearly onymous words differ in orientation because one implies desirability and the other does not (e.g., sim-ple versus simplisfic). In linguistic constructs such as conjunctions, which impose constraints on the mantic orientation of their arguments (Anscombre and Ducrot, 1983; Elhadad and McKeown, 1990), the choices of arguments and connective are ally constrained, as illustrated by:  The tax proposal was  simple and well-received }  simplistic but well-received  *simplistic and well-received  by the public.  In addition, almost all antonyms have different mantic orientations3 If we know that two words relate to the same property (for example, members of the same scalar group such as hot and cold) but have different orientations, we can usually infer that they are antonyms. Given that semantically similar words can be identified automatically on the basis of distributional properties and linguistic cues (Brown et al., 1992; Pereira et al., 1993; Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown, 1993), identifying the semantic orientation of words would allow a system to further refine the retrieved semantic similarity relationships, ex-tracting antonyms.  Unfortunately, dictionaries and similar sources (theusari, WordNet (Miller et al., 1990)) do not clude semantic orientation information. 2 Explicit links between antonyms and synonyms may also be lacking, particularly when they depend on the main of discourse; for example, the opposition bear-bull appears only in stock market reports, where the two words take specialized meanings.  In this paper, we present and evaluate a method that automatically retrieves semantic orientation formation using indirect information collected from a large corpus. Because the method relies on the pus, it extracts domain-dependent information and automatically adapts to a new domain when the pus is changed. Our method achieves high sion (more than 90%), and, while our focus to date has been on adjectives, it can be directly applied to other word classes. Ultimately, our goal is to use this method in a larger system to automatically identify antonyms and distinguish near synonyms.  2 Overview of Our Approach  Our approach relies on an analysis of textual corpora that correlates linguistic features, or indicators, with  1 Exceptions include a small number of terms that are both negative from a pragmatic viewpoint and yet stand in all antonymic relationship; such terms frequently icalize two unwanted extremes, e.g., verbose-terse.  2 Except implicitly, in the form of definitions and age examples.  semantic orientation. While no direct indicators of positive or negative semantic orientation have been proposed 3, we demonstrate that conjunctions tween adjectives provide indirect information about orientation. For most connectives, the conjoined jectives usually are of the same orientation: compare fair and legitimate and corrupt and brutal which tually occur in our corpus, with fair and brutal and corrupt and legitimate (or the other cross-products of the above conjunctions) which are semantically anomalous. The situation is reversed for but, which usually connects two adjectives of different tions.  The system identifies and uses this indirect mation in the following stages:  All conjunctions of adjectives are extracted from the corpus along with relevant logical relations.  A log-linear regression model combines tion from different conjunctions to determine if each two conjoined adjectives are of same or different orientation. The result is a graph with hypothesized or different-orientation links between adjectives.  A clustering algorithm separates the adjectives into two subsets of different orientation. It places as many words of same orientation as possible into the same subset.  The average frequencies in each group are pared and the group with the higher frequency is labeled as positive.  In the following sections, we first present the set of adjectives used for training and evaluation. We next validate our hypothesis that conjunctions strain the orientation of conjoined adjectives and then describe the remaining three steps of the rithm. After presenting our results and evaluation, we discuss simulation experiments that show how our method performs under different conditions of sparseness of data.  Data Collection  For our experiments, we use the 21 million word 1987 Wall Street Journal corpus 4, automatically notated with part-of-speech tags using the PARTS tagger (Church, 1988).  In order to verify our hypothesis about the entations of conjoined adjectives, and also to train and evaluate our subsequent algorithms, we need a  3Certain words inflected with negative affixes (such as or un-) tend to be mostly negative, but this rule applies only to a fraction of the negative words. more, there are words so inflected which have positive orientation, e.g., independent and unbiased.  4Available form the ACL Data Collection Initiative as CD ROM 1.  Negative: contagious drunken ignorant lanky listless primitive strident troublesome unresolved unsuspecting  Figure 1: Randomly selected adjectives with positive and negative orientations.  set of adjectives with predetermined orientation bels. We constructed this set by taking all adjectives appearing in our corpus 20 times or more, then moving adjectives that have no orientation. These are typically members of groups of complementary, qualitative terms (Lyons, 1977), e.g., domestic or medical.  We then assigned an orientation label (either + or -) to each adjective, using an evaluative approach. The criterion was whether the use of this adjective ascribes in general a positive or negative quality to the modified item, making it better or worse than a similar unmodified item. We were unable to reach a unique label out of context for several adjectives which we removed from consideration; for example, cheap is positive if it is used as a synonym of in-expensive, but negative if it implies inferior quality. The operations of selecting adjectives and assigning labels were performed before testing our conjunction hypothesis or implementing any other algorithms, to avoid any influence on our labels. The final set tained 1,336 adjectives (657 positive and 679 tive terms). Figure 1 shows randomly selected terms from this set.  To further validate our set of labeled adjectives, we subsequently asked four people to independently label a randomly drawn sample of 500 of these adjectives. They agreed with us that the posi-tive/negative concept applies to 89.15% of these jectives on average. For the adjectives where a itive or negative label was assigned by both us and the independent evaluators, the average agreement on the label was 97.38%. The average inter-reviewer agreement on labeled adjectives was 96.97%. These results are extremely significant statistically and compare favorably with validation studies performed for other tasks (e.g., sense disambiguation) in the past. They show that positive and negative tation are objective properties that can be reliably determined by humans.  To extract conjunctions between adjectives, we used a two-level finite-state grammar, which covers complex modification patterns and noun-adjective apposition. Running this parser on the 21 mil-lion word corpus, we collected 13,426 conjunctions of adjectives, expanding to a total of 15,431 con-joined adjective pairs. After morphological  transConjunction category  All conjunctions All and conjunctions All or conjunctions All but conjunctions All attributive and conjunctions All predicative and conjunctions All appositive and conjunctions Conjunction % %  sametypes orientation orientation  analyzed (types) (tokens)  Table 1: Validation of our conjunction hypothesis. The P-value is the probability that similar or more extreme results would have been obtained if and different-orientation conjunction types were actually  equally distributed.  formations, the remaining 15,048 conjunction tokens involve 9,296 distinct pairs of conjoined adjectives (types). Each conjunction token is classified by the parser according to three variables: the conjunction used (and, or, bu~, either-or, or neither-nor), the type of modification (attributive, predicative, itive, resultative), and the number of the modified noun (singular or plural).  Validation of the Conjunction Hypothesis  Using the three attributes extracted by the parser, we constructed a cross-classification of the tions in a three-way table. We counted types and kens of each conjoined pair that had both members in the set of pre-selected labeled adjectives discussed above; 2,748 (29.56%) of all conjoined pairs (types) and 4,024 (26.74%) of all conjunction occurrences (tokens) met this criterion. We augmented this ble with marginal totals, arriving at 90 categories, each of which represents a triplet of attribute values, possibly with one or more "don't care" elements.  We then measured the percentage of conjunctions in each category with adjectives of same or ent orientations. Under the null hypothesis of same proportions of adjective pairs (types) of same and different orientation in a given category, the num-ber of or different-orientation pairs follows a binomial distribution with p = 0.5 (Conover, 1980).  We show in Table 1 the results for several sentative categories, and summarize all results low:  Our conjunction hypothesis is validated overall and for almost all individual cases. The results are extremely significant statistically, except for a few cases where the sample is small.  Aside from the use of but with adjectives of different orientations, there are, rather ingly, small differences in the behavior of junctions between linguistic environments (as represented by the three attributes). There are  a few exceptions, e.g., appositive and conjunc-tions modifying plural nouns are evenly split between same and different orientation. But in these exceptional cases the sample is very small, and the observed behavior may be due to chance.  Further analysis of different-orientation pairs in conjunctions other than but shows that con-joined antonyms are far more frequent than pected by chance, in agreement with (Justeson and Katz, 1991).  5 Prediction of Link Type  The analysis in the previous section suggests a line method for classifying links between adjectives: since 77.84% of all links from conjunctions indicate same orientation, we can achieve this level of mance by always guessing that a link is of the orientation type. However, we can improve mance by noting that conjunctions using but exhibit the opposite pattern, usually involving adjectives of different orientations. Thus, a revised but still ple rule predicts a different-orientation link if the two adjectives have been seen in a but conjunction, and a same-orientation link otherwise, assuming the two adjectives were seen connected by at least one conjunction.  Morphological relationships between adjectives so play a role. Adjectives related in form (e.g., ade-quate-inadequate or thoughtful-thoughtless) almost always have different semantic orientations. We plemented a morphological analyzer which matches adjectives related in this manner. This process is highly accurate, but unfortunately does not apply to many of the possible pairs: in our set of 1,336 labeled adjectives (891,780 possible pairs), 102 pairs are morphologically related; among them, 99 are of different orientation, yielding 97.06% accuracy for the morphology method. This information is onal to that extracted from conjunctions: only 12 of the 102 morphologically related pairs have been observed in conjunctions in our corpus. Thus, we  Prediction  method Always predict same orientation  Log-linear model Morphology  used? No Yes No Yes No Yes  Accuracy on reported  Accuracy on reported different-orientation links  Overall accuracy 77.84% 78.86% 80.82% 81.75% 80.97% 82.05%  Table 2: Accuracy of several link prediction models.  add to the predictions made from conjunctions the different-orientation links suggested by cal relationships.  We improve the accuracy of classifying links rived from conjunctions as same or different tion with a log-linear regression model (Santner and Duffy, 1989), exploiting the differences between the various conjunction categories. This is a generalized linear model (McCullagh and Nelder, 1989) with a linear predictor  where x is the vector of the observed counts in the various conjunction categories for the particular jective pair we try to classify and w is a vector of weights to be learned during training. The response y is non-linearly related to r/ through the inverse logit function,  Note that y E (0, 1), with each of these endpoints associated with one of the possible outcomes.  We have 90 possible predictor variables, 42 of which are linearly independent. Since using all the 42 independent predictors invites overfitting (Duda and Hart, 1973), we have investigated subsets of the full log-linear model for our data using the method of iterative stepwise refinement: starting with an tial model, variables are added or dropped if their contribution to the reduction or increase of the ual deviance compares favorably to the resulting loss or gain of residual degrees of freedom. This process led to the selection of nine predictor variables.  We evaluated the three prediction models cussed above with and without the secondary source of morphology relations. For the log-linear model, we repeatedly partitioned our data into equally sized training and testing sets, estimated the weights on the training set, and scored the model's performance on the testing set, averaging the resulting scores. 5 Table 2 shows the results of these analyses. Al-though the log-linear model offers only a small provement on pair classification than the simpler but prediction rule, it confers the important advantage  5When morphology is to be used as a supplementary predictor, we remove the morphologically related pairs from the training and testing sets.  of rating each prediction between 0 and 1. We make extensive use of this in the next phase of our rithm.  6 Finding Groups of Same-Oriented  Adjectives  The third phase of our method assigns the adjectives into groups, placing adjectives of the same (but known) orientation in the same group. Each pair of adjectives has an associated dissimilarity value between 0 and 1; adjectives connected by same-orientation links have low dissimilarities, and con-versely, different-orientation links result in high similarities. Adjective pairs with no connecting links are assigned the neutral dissimilarity 0.5.  The baseline and but methods make qualitative distinctions only (i.e., same-orientation, different-orientation, or unknown); for them, we define similarity for same-orientation links as one minus the probability that such a classification link is correct and dissimilarity for different-orientation links as the probability that such a classification is rect. These probabilities are estimated from arate training data. Note that for these prediction models, dissimilarities are identical for similarly classified links.  The log-linear model, on the other hand, offers an estimate of how good each prediction is, since it produces a value y between 0 and 1. We construct the model so that 1 corresponds to same-orientation, and define dissimilarity as one minus the produced value.  Same and different-orientation links between jectives form a graph. To partition the graph nodes into subsets of the same orientation, we employ an iterative optimization procedure on each connected component, based on the exchange method, a hierarchical clustering algorithm (Spgth, 1985). We define an objective/unction ~ scoring each possible partition 7 ) of the adjectives into two subgroups C1 and C2 as  Number of adjectives in test set ([An[) Number of links in test set ([L~[) Average number oflinksfor each adjective Accuracy Ratio of average group frequencies  Table 3: Evaluation of the adjective classification and labeling methods.  where [Cil stands for the cardinality of cluster i, and d(z, y) is the dissimilarity between adjectives z and  y. We want to select the partition :Pmin that imizes ~, subject to the additional constraint that for each adjective z in a cluster C,  where C is the complement of cluster C, i.e., the other member of the partition. This constraint, based on Rousseeuw's (1987) s=lhoue~es, helps rect wrong cluster assignments.  To find Pmin, we first construct a random tion of the adjectives, then locate the adjective that will most reduce the objective function if it is moved from its current cluster. We move this adjective and proceed with the next iteration until no movements can improve the objective function. At the final eration, the cluster assignment of any adjective that violates constraint (1) is changed. This is a descent hill-climbing method, and thus is teed to converge. However, it will in general find a local minimum rather than the global one; the lem is NP-complete (Garey and $ohnson, 1979). We can arbitrarily increase the probability of finding the globally optimal solution by repeatedly running the algorithm with different starting partitions.  7 Labeling the Clusters as Positive or Negative  The clustering algorithm separates each component of the graph into two groups of adjectives, but does not actually label the adjectives as positive or ative. To accomplish that, we use a simple criterion that applies only to pairs or groups of words of site orientation. We have previously shown vassiloglou and McKeown, 1995) that in oppositions of gradable adjectives where one member is cally unmarked, the unmarked member is the most frequent one about 81% of the time. This is relevant to our task because semantic markedness exhibits a strong correlation with orientation, the unmarked member almost always having positive orientation (Lehrer, 1985; Battistella, 1990).  We compute the average frequency of the words in each group, expecting the group with higher erage frequency to contain the positive terms. This aggregation operation increases the precision of the labeling dramatically since indicators for many pairs of words are combined, even when some of the words are incorrectly assigned to their group.  8 Results and Evaluation  Since graph connectivity affects performance, we vised a method of selecting test sets that makes this dependence explicit. Note that the graph density is largely a function of corpus size, and thus can be increased by adding more data. Nevertheless, we report results on sparser test sets to show how our algorithm scales up.  We separated our sets of adjectives A (containing 1,336 adjectives) and and based links L (containing 2,838 links) into training and testing groups by selecting, for several values of the parameter a, the maximal subset of A, An, which includes an adjective z if and only if there exist at least a links from L between x and other elements of An. This operation in turn defines a subset of L, L~, which includes all links between members of An. We train our log-linear model on L La (excluding links between morphologically lated adjectives), compute predictions and larities for the links in L~, and use these to classify and label the adjectives in An. c~ must be at least 2, since we need to leave some links for training.  Table 3 shows the results of these experiments for a = 2 to 5. Our method produced the correct sification between 78% of the time on the sparsest test set up to more than 92% of the time when a higher number of links was present. Moreover, in all cases, the ratio of the two group frequencies correctly identified the positive subgroup. These results are extremely significant statistically (P-value less than 10 -16 ) when compared with the baseline method of randomly assigning orientations to adjectives, or the baseline method of always predicting the most quent (for types) category (50.82% of the adjectives in our collection are classified as negative). Figure 2 shows some of the adjectives in set A4 and their sifications.  Classified as positive: bold decisive disturbing generous good honest important large mature patient peaceful positive proud sound stimulating straightforward strange talented vigorous witty  Classified as negative:  harmful hypocritical inefficient insecure  irrational irresponsible minor outspoken  pleasant reckless risky selfish tedious  unsupported vulnerable wasteful  Figure 2: Sample retrieved classifications of tives from set A4. Correctly matched adjectives are shown in bold.  9 Graph Connectivity and  Performance  A strong point of our method is that decisions on individual words are aggregated to provide decisions on how to group words into a class and whether to label the class as positive or negative. Thus, the overall result can be much more accurate than the individual indicators. To verify this, we ran a series of simulation experiments. Each experiment mea-sures how our algorithm performs for a given level of precision P for identifying links and a given erage number of links k for each word. The goal is to show that even when P is low, given enough data (i.e., high k), we can achieve high performance for the grouping.  As we noted earlier, the corpus data is eventually represented in our system as a graph, with the nodes corresponding to adjectives and the links to tions about whether the two connected adjectives have the same or different orientation. Thus the rameter P in the simulation experiments measures how well we are able to predict each link dently of the others, and the parameter k measures the number of distinct adjectives each adjective pears with in conjunctions. P therefore directly resents the precision of the link classification rithm, while k indirectly represents the corpus size.  To measure the effect of P and k (which are flected in the graph topology), we need to carry out a series of experiments where we systematically vary their values. For example, as k (or the amount of data) increases for a given level of precision P for dividual links, we want to measure how this affects overall accuracy of the resulting groups of nodes. Thus, we need to construct a series of data sets, or graphs, which represent different scenarios cor-responding to a given combination of values of P and k. To do this, we construct a random graph by randomly assigning 50 nodes to the two possible orientations. Because we don't have frequency and morphology information on these abstract nodes, we cannot predict whether two nodes are of the same or different orientation. Rather, we randomly as-sign links between nodes so that, on average, each node participates in k links and 100 x P% of all links connect nodes of the same orientation. Then we consider these links as identified by the link diction algorithm as connecting two nodes with the same orientation (so that 100 x P% of these pre-dictions will be correct). This is equivalent to the baseline link classification method, and provides a lower bound on the performance of the algorithm actually used in our system (Section 5).  Because of the lack of actual measurements such as frequency on these abstract nodes, we also couple the partitioning and labeling components of our system and score the partition found under the best matching conditions for the actual labels. Thus the simulation measures only how well the system separates positive from negative adjectives, not how well it determines which is which. However, in all the experiments performed on real corpus data tion 8), the system correctly found the labels of the groups; any misclassifications came from misplacing an adjective in the wrong group. The whole dure of constructing the random graph and finding and scoring the groups is repeated 200 times for any given combination of P and k, and the results are averaged, thus avoiding accidentally evaluating our system on a graph that is not truly representative of graphs with the given P and k.  We observe (Figure 3) that even for relatively low t9, our ability to correctly classify the nodes ap-proaches very high levels with a modest number of links. For P = 0.8, we need only about ? links per adjective for classification performance over 90% and only 12 links per adjective for performance over 99%. s The difference between low and high values of P is in the rate at which increasing data increases overall precision. These results are somewhat more optimistic than those obtained with real data tion 8), a difference which is probably due to the form distributional assumptions in the simulation. Nevertheless, we expect the trends to be similar to the ones shown in Figure 3 and the results of Table 3 on real data support this expectation.  10 Conclusion and Future Work  We have proposed and verified from corpus data straints on the semantic orientations of conjoined jectives. We used these constraints to automatically construct a log-linear regression model, which, bined with supplementary morphology rules, pre-dicts whether two conjoined adjectives are of same  812 links per adjective for a set of n adjectives requires 6n conjunctions between the n adjectives in the corpus.  Figure 3: Simulation results obtained on 50 nodes. In each figure, the last z coordinate indicates the (average) maximum possible value of k for this P, and the dotted line shows the performance of a random  classifier.  or different orientation with 82% accuracy. We then classified several sets of adjectives according to the links inferred in this way and labeled them as tive or negative, obtaining 92% accuracy on the sification task for reasonably dense graphs and 100% accuracy on the labeling task. Simulation ments establish that very high levels of performance can be obtained with a modest number of links per word, even when the links themselves are not always correctly classified.  As part of our clustering algorithm's output, a "goodness-of-fit" measure for each word is com-puted, based on Rousseeuw's (1987) silhouettes. This measure ranks the words according to how well they fit in their group, and can thus be used as a quantitative measure of orientation, refining the binary positive-negative distinction. By restricting the labeling decisions to words with high values of this measure we can also increase the precision of our system, at the cost of sacrificing some coverage.  We are currently combining the output of this tem with a semantic group finding system so that we can automatically identify antonyms from the cor-pus, without access to any semantic descriptions. The learned semantic categorization of the adjec-tives can also be used in the reverse direction, to help in interpreting the conjunctions they pate. We will also extend our analyses to nouns and verbs.  Acknowledgements  This work was supported in part by the Office of Naval Research under grant N00014-95-1-0745, jointly by the Office of Naval Research and the Advanced Research Projects Agency under grant N00014-89-J-1782, by the National Science  Foundation under grant GER-90-24069, and by the New York State Center for Advanced Technology un-der contracts NYSSTF-CAT(95)-013 and CAT(96)-013. We thank Ken Church and the AT&T Bell Laboratories for making the PARTS part-of-speech tagger available to us. We also thank Dragomir Radev, Eric Siegel, and Gregory Sean McKinley who provided models for the tion of the adjectives in our training and testing sets as positive and negative.  Edwin L. Battistella. 1990. Markedness: The uative Superstructure of Language. State sity of New York Press, Albany, New York.  Peter F. Brown, Vincent J. della Pietra, Peter V. de Souza, Jennifer C. Lai, and Robert L. Mercer. 1992. Class-based n-gram models of natural guage. Computational Linguistics, 18(4):487-479.  Kenneth W. Church. 1988. A stochastic parts program and noun phrase parser for unrestricted text. In Proceedings of the Second Conference on Applied Natural Language Processing (ANLP-88),  pages 136-143, Austin, Texas, February. tion for Computational Linguistics.  W. J. Conover. 1980. Practical Nonparametric Statistics. Wiley, New York, 2nd edition.  Richard O. Duda and Peter E. Hart. 1973. Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis. Wiley, New York.  Michael Elhadad and Kathleen R. McKeown. 1990. A procedure for generating connectives. In Pro-ceedings of COLING, Helsinki, Finland, July.  Michael R. Garey and David S. Johnson. 1979.  Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory ofNP-Completeness. W. H. Freeman, San Francisco, California.  Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Kathleen R. own. 1993. Towards the automatic identification of adjectival scales: Clustering adjectives ing to meaning. In Proceedings of the 31st Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 172-182, Columbus, Ohio, June. Association for Computational guistics.  Vasileios I-Iatzivassiloglou and Kathleen R. own. 1995. A quantitative evaluation of tic tests for the automatic prediction of semantic markedness. In Proceedings of the 83rd Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 197-204, Boston, sachusetts, June. Association for Computational Linguistics.  John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz. 1991. occurrences of antonymous adjectives and their contexts. Computational Linguistics, 17(1):1-19.  Adrienne Lehrer. 1974. Semantic Fields and Lezical Structure. North Holland, Amsterdam and New York.  Adrienne Lehrer. 1985. Markedness and antonymy. Journal of Linguistics, 31(3):397-429, September.  John Lyons. 1977. Semantics, volume 1. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England.  Peter McCullagh and John A. Nelder. 1989. Gen-eralized Linear Models. Chapman and Hall, don, 2nd edition.  George A. Miller, Richard Beckwith, Christiane baum, Derek Gross, and Katherine J. Miller. 1990. Introduction to WordNet: An on-line lexical database. International Journal of phy (special issue), 3(4):235-312.  Fernando Pereira, Naftali Tishby, and Lillian Lee. 1993. Distributional clustering of English words. In Proceedings of the 3Ist Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 183-190, Columbus, Ohio, June. sociation for Computational Linguistics.  Peter J. Rousseeuw. 1987. Silhouettes: A graphical aid to the interpretation and validation of cluster analysis. Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, 20:53-65.  Thomas J. Santner and Diane E. Duffy. 1989. The Statistical Analysis of Discrete Data. Springer-Verlag, New York.  Helmuth Spith. 1985. Cluster Dissection and ysis: Theory, FORTRAN Programs, Examples. Ellis Horwo0d, Chiehester, West Sussex, England. 